icon: update docs (#1997)
agriculturegovau/agds-next: packages/react/src/icon/docs/overview.mdx

---
title: Icon

> description: The Agriculture Design System supports the use of meaningful and universal system icons that users understand. The icon component is used to apply our set of universal icons to more complex components of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Icons that are meaningful and understood by all users can improve a user's experience. The icon component is used to apply our set of meaningful icons to more complex components of the system.
```

group: Foundations
storybookPath: /story/foundations-icon--all-icons
relatedComponents:
  ['app-layout', 'button', 'progress-indicator', 'status-badge', 'task-list']
---

```jsx live
<Flex alignItems="center" gap={1}>
	<SuccessIcon size="md" />
	<AvatarIcon size="md" />
	<SearchIcon size="md" />
	<DeleteIcon size="md" />
	<ArrowRightIcon size="md" />
</Flex>
```

> Meaningful icons can be used to enhance the experience for sighted users making it easier to scan content, identify actions and understand user interfaces. The icon component gives you access to a suite of system icons that are designed to represent common states and universal actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Meaningful icons can be used to enhance the experience for sighted users; making it easier to scan content, identify actions and understand user interfaces. The icon component gives you access to a suite of system icons that are designed to represent common states and universal actions.
```

<DoHeading />

> - Only use universal icons, that all users understand, and that clearly represent an intended meaning or context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use icons, that all users understand, and that clearly represent an intended meaning or context.
```

- Use icons to support visual recognition of repeatable or consistent system wide states or actions
- Always use a meaningful text label and accessible name when using an icon in an action
- Avoid using bespoke icons in your applications as you may confuse users

> - Only consider using an icon without a meaningful label if there is insufficient space and including the label will detract from the user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Only consider using an icon without a visible label if there is insufficient space and including the label will detract from the user experience.
```

> - Only consider using an icon without a meaningful label if there is insufficient space and including the label will detract from the user experience.

Reviewer: we dont use second level dot points elsewhere - is there another way to handle this content?

Reviewer 2: We actually do in Button. It's weird though https://design-system.agriculture.gov.au/components/button

Author: Moved the 2nd level dot point into an `Icons and labels` section in the 2nd paragraph.

>   - An example of this is mobile search bar where including a label for the action will take up essential space for search input, and the icon meaning is explicit like ’search’ or ’close’.

Reviewer 2: This should not be a root bullet point

>   - An example of this is mobile search bar where including a label for the action will take up essential space for search input, and the icon meaning is explicit like ’search’ or ’close’.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - An example of this is a mobile search bar. Including a label for the action will take up essential space needed by the search input, and the context provides clear meaning to the icon.
```

<DontHeading />

- Use icons that are unconventional or are not commonly understood to represent the action or state - this will confuse users.

## Icons

> When using an icon, always provide a meaningful label and accessible name to help all users quickly recognise and understand what action will occur. Don’t use icons without labels because you may confuse some users - even the simplest icons will be new or uncommon to some users.

Reviewer 2: "Don’t use icons without labels because you may confuse some users" This kinda contradicts everything which has been said before…

Author: Updated and moved to the new heading `Icons and labels`. The following paragraphs have guidance on icons without labels.

"Provide a meaningful label and accessible name with the icon to help all users quickly recognise and understand what action will occur. Icons are small visual elements that can be interpreted differently by people. Using icons without labels can confuse some users - even the simplest icons will be new or uncommon to some users."

Each icon in our library is meaningful and universal, to ensure users understand them. Icons should not be too detailed, to ensure they’re clear and legible at all available sizes. [See the full list of available icons.](/foundations/icons)

> Use icons that accurately communicate the action with a label that describes the action. For example, search fields on mobile often use a magnifying glass icon without a label due to space constraints.

Reviewer 2: This is one weird, long sentence

> Use icons that accurately communicate the action with a label that describes the action. For example, search fields on mobile often use a magnifying glass icon without a label due to space constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use icons and labels together that that are commonly used and accurately communicate the action, context or outcome. For example, [Searchbox](/components/searchbox) uses a magnifying glass icon with the label 'Search' in situations where there is enough space for both the icon and label. On mobile screens the [Searchbox](/components/searchbox) responds to a smaller component where only the common and meaningful magnifying glass icon is provided. 
```

Author: Search box doesn't support using both icon and text. I've taken a shot at reword the example using `toggle-button`.

"Use icons and labels together that are commonly used and accurately communicate an action, context or outcome. For example, a flag [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) can be used without a visible label provided there is enough context surrounding the icon, such as in a mailbox application to action its importance or required attention. [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) will provide an accessible label for assistive technologies."

> Do you have a user need for a new or missing icon? [Get in touch](/about) to discuss an icon contribution.

## Icon Position

When using an icon with a button or link, the icon should appear before the text except when the icon indicates direction, e.g. Next or external links.

## Sizes

Icons are available in sizes medium, large and extra large.

> Medium icons are used in small buttons, in components like accordions, drop down menus, breadcrumbs and links that are nested in content paragraphs such as external link. Always consider the complexity of an icon before using the small variant as small complex icons may be hard to read for some users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Medium icons are used in small buttons, in components like accordions, drop-down menus, breadcrumbs and links that are nested in content paragraphs. Always consider the complexity of an icon before using the small variant, as small complex icons may be hard to read for some users.
```

---
title: Icon
description: Icons that are meaningful and understood by all users can improve a user's experience. The icon component is used to apply our set of meaningful icons to more complex components of the system.
group: Foundations
storybookPath: /story/foundations-icon--all-icons
relatedComponents:
  ['app-layout', 'button', 'progress-indicator', 'status-badge', 'task-list']
---

```jsx live
<Flex alignItems="center" gap={1}>
	<SuccessIcon size="md" />
	<AvatarIcon size="md" />
	<SearchIcon size="md" />
	<DeleteIcon size="md" />
	<ArrowRightIcon size="md" />
</Flex>
```

Meaningful icons can be used to enhance the experience for sighted users; making it easier to scan content, identify actions and understand user interfaces. The icon component gives you access to a suite of system icons that are designed to represent common states and universal actions.

<DoHeading />

- Use icons, that all users understand, and that clearly represent an intended meaning or context.

> - Use icons to support visual recognition of repeatable or consistent system wide states or actions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use icons to support visual recognition of repeatable or consistent system-wide states or actions
```

> - Always use a meaningful text label and accessible name when using an icon in an action

Reviewer 2: This isn't true. We often don't give an icon an accessible name because it is paired with a meaningful text label

Author: Removed `Always` from dotpoint

- Avoid using bespoke icons in your applications as you may confuse users
- Only consider using an icon without a visible label if there is insufficient space and including the label will detract from the user experience.

<DontHeading />

> - Use icons that are unconventional or are not commonly understood to represent the action or state - this will confuse users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use icons that are unconventional or are not commonly understood to represent the action or state – this will confuse users.
```

## Icons

> Each icon in our library is simple but detailed enough to ensure users can understand them. Icons should not be too detailed, so they are clear and legible at all available sizes. [See the full list of available icons.](/foundations/icons)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each icon in our library is simple, but detailed enough to ensure users can understand them. Icons should not be too detailed, so they are clear and legible at all available sizes. [See the full list of available icons.](/foundations/icons)
```

> Do you have a user need for a new or missing icon? [Get in touch](/about) to discuss an icon contribution.

## Icons and labels

Provide a meaningful label and accessible name with the icon to help all users quickly recognise and understand what action will occur. Icons are small visual elements that can be interpreted differently by people. Using icons without labels can confuse some users - even the simplest icons will be new or uncommon to some users.

> An icon can be used without a visible label if there is insufficient space and the context provides clear meaning to the icon. An example of this is a mobile search bar. Including a label for the action will take up essential space needed by the search input, and the context provides clear meaning to the icon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An icon can be used without a visible label when there is insufficient space and the context provides clear meaning to the icon. An example of this is a mobile search bar. Including a label for the action will take up essential space needed by the search input, and the context provides clear meaning to the icon.
```

Use icons and labels together that are commonly used and accurately communicate an action, context or outcome. For example, a flag [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) can be used without a visible label provided there is enough context surrounding the icon, such as in a mailbox application to action its importance or required attention. [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) will provide an accessible label for assistive technologies.

> ## Icon Position

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Icon position
```

When using an icon with a button or link, the icon should appear before the text except when the icon indicates direction, e.g. Next or external links.

## Sizes

> Icons are available in sizes medium, large and extra large.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Icons are available in three sizes: medium, large and extra large.
```

Author: There was a comment left in the docs to avoid mentioning small sizes: @adrian-yee

Author: Updated to add `small` back into `Sizes`

> Medium icons are used in small buttons, in components like accordions, drop-down menus, breadcrumbs and links that are nested in content paragraphs. Always consider the complexity of an icon before using the small variant, as small complex icons may be hard to read for some users.

Reviewer 2: This feels weird to tack a thing about small on the end. We should lead with small (so the content increases in size order), states what small is for, but also warns.

> Large icons are most commonly used in medium sized buttons and links. All icons of the system are optimised for legibility at this size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Large icons are most commonly used in medium-sized buttons and links. All icons of the system are optimised for legibility at this size.
```

<DoHeading />

- use icons, that all users understand, and that clearly represent an intended meaning or context
- use icons to support visual recognition of repeatable or consistent system-wide states or actions
- use a meaningful text label and accessible name when using an icon in an action
- avoid using bespoke icons in your applications as you may confuse users
- only consider using an icon without a visible label when there is insufficient space and including the label will detract from the user experience.

<DontHeading />

- use icons that are unconventional or are not commonly understood to represent the action or state – this will confuse users.

## Icons

Each icon in our library is simple, but detailed enough to ensure users can understand them. Icons should not be too detailed, so they are clear and legible at all available sizes. [See the full list of available icons.](/foundations/icons)

> Do you have a user need for a new or missing icon? [Get in touch](/about) to discuss an icon contribution.

## Icons and labels

> Icons are small meaningful images that are used to communicate actions or status. Using icons without labels can confuse some users because even the simplest icons can be misinterpreted. Always provide a meaningful label and/or accessible name with an icon to help all users quickly recognise and understand what has happened or what will occur. Pairing icons with meaningful and common visible labels helps align with user’s expectations and to communicate an action, context or outcome and provides the best user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Icons are small meaningful images that are used to communicate actions or status. Using icons without labels can confuse some users because even the simplest icons can be misinterpreted. Always provide a meaningful label and/or accessible name with an icon to help all users quickly recognise and understand what has happened or what will occur. Pairing icons with meaningful and common visible labels helps align with users’ expectations and to communicate an action, context or outcome and provides the best user experience.
```

> An icon can be used without a visible label if there is insufficient space and the composition provides clear context and meaning for the icon. For example, in a mailbox or message application a flag [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) can be used without a visible label to allow a user to mark an item as 'flagged'. Including a label for the action would take up essential space needed by the table row, and the application provides clear context to the icon meaning. [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) will provide an accessible label for assistive technologies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An icon can be used without a visible label if there is insufficient space and the composition provides clear context and meaning for the icon. For example, in a mailbox or message application a flag [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) can be used without a visible label to allow a user to mark an item as ‘flagged’. Including a label for the action would take up essential space needed by the table row, and the application provides clear context to the icon meaning. [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) will provide an accessible label for assistive technologies.
```

Reviewer 2: "Including a label for the action would take up essential space needed by the table row, and the application provides clear context to the icon meaning"

I don't like this sentence, specifically the "and…" part, but I can't think of an improvement right now

> The [Search box](/components/search-box) component uses a magnifying glass icon with the label ’Search’ in situations where there is enough space for both the icon and label. However, on small screens the [Search box](/components/search-box) responds to a narrower component where only the magnifying glass icon is shown. Keeping both icon and label on the narrow [Search box](/components/search-box) would reduce the space available for search input which would compromise the utility of the component and the user experience.

Author: @stowball Adrian reworded this section, here is the latest

> The [Search box](/components/search-box) component uses a magnifying glass icon with the label ’Search’ in situations where there is enough space for both the icon and label. However, on small screens the [Search box](/components/search-box) responds to a narrower component where only the magnifying glass icon is shown. Keeping both icon and label on the narrow [Search box](/components/search-box) would reduce the space available for search input which would compromise the utility of the component and the user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Search box](/components/search-box) component uses a magnifying glass icon with the label ‘Search’ in situations where there is enough space for both the icon and label. However, on small screens the [Search box](/components/search-box) responds to a narrower component where only the magnifying glass icon is shown. Keeping both icon and label on the narrow [Search box](/components/search-box) would reduce the space available for search input which would compromise the utility of the component and the user experience.
```

> The [Search box](/components/search-box) component uses a magnifying glass icon with the label ’Search’ in situations where there is enough space for both the icon and label. However, on small screens the [Search box](/components/search-box) responds to a narrower component where only the magnifying glass icon is shown. Keeping both icon and label on the narrow [Search box](/components/search-box) would reduce the space available for search input which would compromise the utility of the component and the user experience.

Reviewer 2: This isn't true

---
title: Icon

> description: Icons that are meaningful and understood by all users can improve a user's experience. The icon component is used to apply our set of meaningful icons to more complex components of the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Icons that are meaningful and understood by all users can improve a user’s experience. The icon component is used to apply our set of meaningful icons to more complex components of the system.
```

</Flex>
```

Meaningful icons can be used to enhance the experience for sighted users; making it easier to scan content, identify actions and understand user interfaces. The icon component gives you access to a suite of system icons that are designed to represent common states and universal actions.

<DoHeading />

> - Use icons, that all users understand, and that clearly represent an intended meaning or context.

Reviewer 2: We only have a full stop on the last item
```suggestion
- Use icons, that all users understand, and that clearly represent an intended meaning or context
```

> - Use icons, that all users understand, and that clearly represent an intended meaning or context.

Reviewer 2: We never seem to start these bullet points with capitals elsewhere…

Reviewer 2: Still using capitals…

- Use icons to support visual recognition of repeatable or consistent system wide states or actions
- Always use a meaningful text label and accessible name when using an icon in an action
- Avoid using bespoke icons in your applications as you may confuse users

> - Only consider using an icon without a visible label if there is insufficient space and including the label will detract from the user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Only consider using an icon without a visible label where there is insufficient space and including the label will detract from the user experience.
```

<DontHeading />

- Use icons that are unconventional or are not commonly understood to represent the action or state - this will confuse users.

## Icons

Each icon in our library is simple but detailed enough to ensure users can understand them. Icons should not be too detailed, so they are clear and legible at all available sizes. [See the full list of available icons.](/foundations/icons)

> Do you have a user need for a new or missing icon? [Get in touch](/about) to discuss an icon contribution.

## Icons and labels

> Provide a meaningful label and accessible name with the icon to help all users quickly recognise and understand what action will occur. Icons are small visual elements that can be interpreted differently by people. Using icons without labels can confuse some users - even the simplest icons will be new or uncommon to some users.

Reviewer 2: We don't always provide an accessible because often the label is the the thing
```suggestion
Provide a meaningful label and/or accessible name with the icon to help all users quickly recognise and understand what action will occur. Icons are small visual elements that can be interpreted differently by people. Using icons without labels can confuse some users – even the simplest icons will be new or uncommon to some users.
```

An icon can be used without a visible label when there is insufficient space and the context provides clear meaning to the icon. An example of this is a mobile search bar. Including a label for the action will take up essential space needed by the search input, and the context provides clear meaning to the icon.

Use icons and labels together that are commonly used and accurately communicate an action, context or outcome. For example, a flag [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) can be used without a visible label provided there is enough context surrounding the icon, such as in a mailbox application to action its importance or required attention. [Toggle button](/components/toggle-button) will provide an accessible label for assistive technologies.

## Icon position

When using an icon with a button or link, the icon should appear before the text except when the icon indicates direction, e.g. Next or external links.

## Sizes

Icons are available in sizes small, medium, large and extra large.

> Small icons are used in small buttons, in components like accordions, drop-down menus, breadcrumbs and links that are nested in content paragraphs. Always consider the complexity of an icon before using the small variant, as small complex icons may be hard to read for some users.

Reviewer 2: This is incorrect. Medium icons are still used in small buttons etc.

My comment was to bring the "Always consider the complexity of an icon before using the small variant, as small complex icons may be hard to read for some users." up first, but instead of just being negative, tell users first what they can be used for, then warn about using them etc

Reviewer 2: I see @adrian-yee specifically wanted small to be "not mentioned", but it feels weird and underhanded the way we've done it.

Author: Updated is confirmed good and resolved
